# ATP-Project

The goal of this analysis is to determine the best player in tennis based on different categories. The objective of the analysis is to determine the best player based on the tournaments won i.e., Grand Slam Titles, World Ranking in Tennis, the Country they play for and the tournaments with most wins among others. The objective of the analysis is also to determine the best country in tennis globally. It also determines the best players based on different countries. This analysis helps us to tell the best from the rest. 
	To achieve this, we first need to get the dataset required for analysis. The dataset is downloaded from the public dataset repositories in Kaggle.com. The link to download is https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/haidermasood/atp-masters-tennis-dataset. This dataset contains tennis data for different years; but it cannot be used for data visualizations as it is. Therefore, data pre-processing is necessary. This is achieved by writing a Python code for pre-processing the data. 
	The Python code imports all required libraries for pre-processing. The required csv files for data processing are then put in the same folder as the Python code. In this case, only data from 2011 tournaments and onwards is required. The csv files are combined together using python panda’s library and all duplicates and missing values removed. This step cleans all the data. The combined dataset is still large for processing. Therefore, using Python code, a subset of the data is collected and saved in a new csv file to be used for data visualizations in Tableau. 
	Once the data is pre-processed, cleaned and saved in a new file, it is then analysed again to determine the attributes and columns that will be useful for analysing the data to come up with meaningful insights into the data to achieve the objectives of the analysis. This step is also done using Python code. After this step, the data is saved in the new file again and it is ready to be imported to Tableau for data visualizations. 
	In Tableau, a new project is created to start the visualizations. The saved datasets are imported into Tableau and extracted into the project. Different visualizations are created based on the analysis done earlier so that the objectives are achieved. 
